One crore is very easy for you
Because, when we entered this domain
I used to think that 1-1.5 lakh comes normally
But perhaps we can't reach a crore
Google has its own system, inside there, a separate world is going on
Goldman Sachs has its own java
For example, Facebook has its own PHP, HPHP
Think once, you created 1.5 lakhs deserving candidates
Are there 1.5 lakh job opportunities in India
25 million new jobs will be created by 2025
25 million is 2.5 crore
So 3 lakhs is nothing
In the near future, low level design will be asked from SDE 1
So we are trying to address the problem that how we can give parallel IIT type education to larger youth
In fact better education
Hello ji, how are you all? this is Love Babbar
This video will be a very interesting board cast
We have shot it with a very high level personality
Anshuman Singh, Co-Founder of scaler academy
We have discussed interesting stories
Before he was a software engineer at Facebook
Then he shifted his career to entrepreneur
There he started 2 companies,
So we will discuss his journey, it will be fun
We will not only discuss coding, but there we will also discuss entrepreneurship, business
A Co-Founder will tell you if you are targeting business then which points you should keep in  mind
What mistakes you should avoid and focus on what
If we talk about coding then everything will be discussed
Metaverse, what will be the future of programming
Will DSA become extinct?
Will there be more focus on development?
Will machines take over the jobs of humans
What will be the no of jobs by 2025?
Because, now there is the hype of the software domain
Pay is also good
And it is increasing
Is it safe to expect a future in this domain?
Or should I shift my career , has saturation come ?
Story is interesting, we will discuss his journey
Business , coding
I am saying it is interesting because I wanted to keep this video of 30 mins
But things are so interesting, engaging
Then I decided to add the entire 50 mins conversation
So that you can enjoy it, let's start
So we have Anshuman cofounder of scaler academy
He has also cracked Google , Facebook , 2 times ACM ICPC finalist
And he has also started a company before this
There are a lot of achievements
I will not give more introduction from my side
I want to ask, why you left Google and joined Facebook
I am a little old, 2010
At that time Facebook was a startup
In starting it was nothing like I wanted to join , we were happy with Google
I had like two other friends , both also had offers from Google
We got a call from Facebook, actually they called us to the USA for onsite
We thought that we are getting a free trip, so  we gave an interview at  the same time , and scheduled onsite interview at same, so that we can go together
By chance we all got selected
When started talking to people , then we understood quality of work is not only about the brand of company that you are joining
But it is about that the work you will do, what will be its impact
What  type of people will work with you in that project
What is the scope of growth?
I am not saying that you should always join a startup , at that time it was visible
These aspects are better in Facebook, that time
We spoke with many people , they also gave the same advice
Then we went to Facebook
Which started as fun became serious thing
Plan was good , lets go for a trip , and also got selected
1st all 3 were in Google then went to trip and got selected for Facebook
And also joined
It is interesting
Sir in this board cast will talk about coding , and also discuss the startup thing
Because we are catering to both the audience, they can get both types of knowledge
We will discuss coding later
Now tell me , I want to do startup , and I am a viewer of Love Babbar's channel
And i am sitting beside the cofounder sir, tell me the three points
There is any viewer that wants to do startup , 3 mistakes or learning that you can give to him/her
That keep these 3 things in mind , you can save a lot of time
1st way is that try by yourself, do mistakes, and then rectify them
But if I tell you these 3 things then you can save a lot of time
As a cofounder
Mistakes happens in startups , we can't avoid them like that
But I will tell you the reasons because of  which startups fails most of the time
1. You are not solving the problem for long enough
Which is, many people start company by the thing that lets do it for 6 months
1 year
Company can't be created in 6 months or 1 year
You have to give time
My advise is if you are starting any company
Then make sure that you have enough money for yourself
If you are not earning for next 4-5 years
Then also you can survive
and then give yourself 4 to 5 years
Then something can happen
2. people are not focused , easily gets distracted and want to do many things at a time
At present blockchain is famous , so people want to do it
Crypto ,
What happens , when you do many things at a time , then you can't do anything properly
That is the 2nd primary reason , why startups fail, they do too many things
Instead of focusing on one thing very very deep
For example , the most common mistakes early product managers make is
That they start focusing on the no of features that they are launching
My site is good because there are 15 features
His/her side is bad because it has only 10 features
But the products that are good , like what's app
Simplest messaging app , there is no feature
Hike used to have too many features , but What's app is successful , because simply focused
Focus is important
I am sure you have also some examples
I have little  different experience
It is not related to coding , my experience is that
I went to watch Milkha Singh
After coming home , I was thinking of doing running , become a runner , will go to Olympic , and bring the gold medal
Then I watched Dangal, then decided to become a wrestler
Then watched Dhoni's movie , then decided to play cricket
Things are going on , and you are constantly think to do things based on them
4-5 things get accumulated
When you will see back 6 moths then you will see that you did nothing in those months
I think clarity is very important
It doesn't mean that what will you do in next 5 years or 10 years
For me it is that what I will do in next 6 months
If you ask me my plan for next 6 months then I can confidently tell you
If you ask about 5 years , I have no plan for it now
I don't know where world will reach in 5 years
Any new tech can  come
I have the clarity for 6 moths , and I am confident that I can do it
Your 1st point is important
When I talk to people who are working in  company
They are leaving , and there window  is  same of 6moths or 1 year
If it works in this window , then I will continue , or i will come back
Majority have this window only , if it works in 6 months , or 1 year
which not happens
Final reason why companies do succeed is they are playing in very very small market
Sharktank terminology that market size is small
If my product is only for 100 people in the world
No matter how good is the product , there is a cap to maximum amount of money I can earn
And hence the kind of business I can build
Vs if market is very big , there are many potential customers
If I do mistakes then also my company will get bigger
So always play in big markets
So this was for your startup viewers , that a cofounder is sharing his learnings
From here you got the clarity, that you have to work on these 3 things
Don't enter with 6 months or 1 year window
You should have a safe amount of capital , so that you can sustain 4-5 years
It should not happen that you end up in 2 moths
So you have to work on these things , then you have to move ahead
Lets move to next question , which is very important
I am uploading content since 2.5 -3 years
I have observed one thing in coding space/college space
That there is a tier mentality , that my college is tier 1
tier 2, tier 3
I can't understand why it is there
I had a conversation with a student one year ago  who was from tier 3 college
He used to think that the people in IIT get placed without any effort
Because they are in IITs, companies come and pick everyone
There is a line that companies are served to them in plates
Actually this is not the case , there also students have to put efforts
I am from IIIT Hyderabad
It was a tension period during placements
I have seen people crying , because companies came but nothing happened
Left people are nervous
So you have to do hard work everywhere
But if you take a step back and see why this colleges are classified as tier 1, 2,3
By one JEE exam ones capability is not defined
But then also why it happens , if I take IIT Bombay
I don't want to offend anyone , why IIT Bombay is IIT Bombay?
It is not because there are good professors
There is nothing like that teach very well
Curriculum is also not that excellent
In 1st year they  make us do carpentry
We have also done welding
Now I am doing coding, why are you teaching me welding
I didn't got it till now
Curriculum is also not that good but the thing which is very solid
Is the community, year after year
How to learn together and how to learn from the seniors , there are the traditions
And everyone is motivated
If one is not doing then he/she will feel bad , everyone around me is doing then why I am not doing
And  you discover many things
Like I remember, when I was in college I didn't know about google summer of code and all that
I got to know about it when the one besides me was checking the page
I asked him then he told
Then I got tot know that some one got in google summer of code and they are getting 3 lakhs in a month
At that time 3 lakhs was very much
Then I tried for google summer of code
All these things happens organically by itself
Because you are with people who are with you
That defines tier 1
What happens in tier 3?
I would like to explain it with another example
In Lucknow there was a friend of mine who had joined a college there
And there the situation is like, if he wants to read then other people abuse him
There tradition is like sit at one place and chill
So this is the norm
Some one is working hard that is exception
So for this reason it is very hard to give effort on this for one or two persons also
As there is no motivation at all from the surrounding
In fact people are trying to pull you down
So this difference comes because of that reason
What type of people are around you
Unfortunate is that education level is little broken
It should be fixed , but at present tier 1 or 3 is defined by that
If you create people like you around you , make 5 people group
And they should be serious about studies , motivate each other
They fight, then you are already in a tier 1
Because it is not like that if you are a tier 3 , then company will not take you
They will ask same question from everyone
Who ever answers will be taken , simple logic , no one will say that he/she is from NSIT take  him
Question will be asked if you answer then you will be taken
Mentality , if there is crowd then I will also do it with crowd
I will also do it
Leg pulling is everywhere , we can't do anything about it
I think communities will grow , as awareness will increase
2 years ago there were coding channels in single digits on youtube
If I had to understand something then at that time there was no youtuber like that
At present everything is available , off campus opportunities
Tier -3 has got the awareness
It will grow with time
If I talk about the college , where the education system is lagging
Many things are broken
Like , one more example from Lucknow , from where I belong
There is a college , I can't take the name
There is a tradition that students that are not placed , are hired as teachers in that college
If these type of teachers are being hired , then I don't know what type of teaching is happening there
There are useless colleges where anyone is hired as a teachers
The colleges which are little good , there teachers are not hired because of there teaching , but because of there researching
Both are not interconnected
My ability to teach is not proportional to my ability to research
My knowledge level is not indicative of how good I teach
So this is broken , in fact I believe that whose who are teaching should be practitioner
They build software, that's why they are teaching
Not the theory
If I take more examples , the basic subjects
OS, networks , data bases , are taught in theoretical way
If you see carefully , that students don't have love for there teachers
They are understanding things from youtuber bhaiya
This is actually useful , I will tell this to interviewer , this person is my friend
Not the teacher
He is teaching me analog , digital , or the DSA
This is not of that level
If I tell you by my experience , in our case not all the teachers but there were 2-3 teachers
They used to see NPTL lectures before coming to class , made the notes
Then used to teach us
So in this way you can't make the student strong
You can't provide them all the skills
You yourself has studied it half an hour ago , you don't have  the depth knowledge
I am not saying teacher is useless
But I want to say don't do it like that
An individual already working in Microsoft , Amazon
He/she can tell you more accurately ,
Follow these practices ., you should know these questions
Then you can crack the interview , same person is working there and also taking the interview
That person is practitioner
He has already done it, it is easy for him
But who has became teacher on the basis of research , they may have not the clarity
This already happens in medical field , doctor teaches students
I know what type of cases are coming daily , I am able to utilize it
This is not happening in CSE
2. Some people give argument that , some people don't want to do job
Some want to do research , I completely agree
But the research which is good is moving towards industry , industry research
The best research labs today are Google AI lab
Facebook AI lab , Amazon AI centres , these guys are doing the best edge cutting research
That are producing devices and results , that we are going on a daily basis
Today we use Alexa , I say random things in Hindi/English and it takes the action
This was not imaginable
Like 10 years back
So the advancements that are happening , research advancements
Those are also coming from industries
If application and industry is relevant then there is benefit
I think this is broken
2. our curriculums , in many colleges it has not been since 15-17 years
CSE is a field which changes every year
Every month a new tech is coming , if you talk to a relative who is working in this domain already
Then he/she will tell you that every month new things are coming
If one person is working in this domain since 10 years then also he can't say he knows everything
Because after 6 months there will be some thing coming , new frame work
You may have to migrate you code base
Things getting changed , you can't be expert every time
Again new thing comes , then again you have to start from start
Says that there is nepotism in Bollywood
In tech industry there is anti-nepotism
Even who is master , has to learn again to be relevant
If you have to stand , then you have to keep learning
If you don't do it , then you will be kicked out
Sir you have been in US , you are now seeing India's market
Then you are able to see the key differences that there Google , Facebook got created , but why not here
The key differences that you are seeing
I think in India people are more hardworking
Sincere , in here people work for 12 hours , there this not happens
But There is one thing we are lagging as a society, that our society has defined a path
That these will become  doctor, these engineers ,
And deviating from path is not ok
If some one takes the risk , and try to do something
Lets say I tried to start my own company
then people will talk behind the back , that he has gone mad
If fails , then everyone say I have told you
Then all are sharks , I knew that here he did mistake , his marketing was bad
This is normal , people teaches Virat that this drive was not good
So our society doesn't encourage to take risk
In US , it is opposite , like you are in a gathering and introducing yourself
And you said you are a Google engineer , or Facebook engineer , I will not get that much respect
Vs someone say that I have tried to companies but failed
People wear failure as a badge of honour , and they get a lot of respect
There was no need to take but still you taken it
Failed it doesn't matter
But when you promote , take risk and fail
If you have population of 10 lakhs , then 1 lakh will take the risk
May 1000 companies succeed
Some of them become Google , Facebook , Apple
In our society if there is same population , if we didn't allowed anyone to take risk
100 are taking risk , 5 companies will be created , Paytm , freshdesk , Zomato
But only 5 will be created
So the one difference in mindset to take risk
Bold bets , we take less
We have the talent , definitely more than them , both quantity and quality wise
But we are lacking , risk taking behaviour should be promoted
So then we can build Facebook , Google
We have the opportunity `, that the next silicon valley should come from here
China is already doing it , whereas they are not English speaking nation
China build Bytedance , TIKTOK , it is build for the world
Its now completing with Facebook
Its a product from china for the world
There mobile devices are the products from china for the world
We have less products like that for now
We have SAS companies , B to c products , consumer products , which are build in India but for the world , which is less
But there is large opportunity
So we talked about tier-3 mentality , we think about tiers
We will be not selected because we are from tier-3
In Punjab students from tier-3 don't even think of getting placed in Amazon , Microsoft
They think of TCS , Infosys , getting placed for 3-4 lakhs package
There are product based companies , you can go there , explore them
They don't know about it
If we talk about how to remove this tier mentality , or how you are working for it
The right way to remove it is to bring people together , and develop the interest in them
In which our colleges are failing
When interest will be developed , people will explore then , ones they feel confident
One thing that we will try , we will see how it goes
Our one plan is to build parallel btech/bachelor's program
Where we get best software engineers to teach
We will get people to leave together , create communities
At least the success that we are getting in working professionals , in data science , software engineering
We will replicate it in bachelor's
Now our system is broken , one student is preparing for JEE for 2-3 years
It has no use , then wastes four years in college
, there is only 1-2 semesters study is useful
Why I am wasting that much time
Why can't I make the same person productive , at least explore and be productive
It can be done , so we are trying to address that problem , how we can give IIT level education to larger youth
In fact better education
This is not the thing of privilege
That I will prepare 3 years , I am privilege , hence I have the access to IITs
Rather , right to have access to privileged form of education
Here I can see a very important perspective , our problem is college
The teachers are not practitioner they are not providing the depth , unable to teach relevant content
Curriculum is also bad , time is also getting wasted
One option is that blame everything
2nd option , you take the problem and try to solve it, and your vision is to create something
I will create something , where there is no need to study useless subjects
Remove them , and do the relevant things , teachers will be also the persons who are doing it
There was a problem that has been solved actually
One very important thing sir , I posted on insta , if anyone has any question to ask
Majority are saying if its for students then why so costly ?
One said to make it 25,000 course
Arrange free courses for me
Majority are talking about the money , why courses are expansive
Reduce the cost of courses
Majority are talking about the cost , the course is top level
Here practitioners are teaching , but the blocking point is the cost
What you think about it? if it is high then why it is high ?reason
I want to share some data points
What's the reason
Still now our large effort is going in growing interviewbit
It is free
There are videos, practice problem , all are free
But we saw is , on interview bit there are 30 lakhs people , we have did this analysis in 2018 also
At that time there were 10 lakh people, the levels that we have , when you solve problems , then your level increases
We saw that the last and 2nd last level , have 1000 people out of 10 lakhs
Those were also from the top colleges
already privileged
We felt that the impact that we wanted to create, we are lacking that
When we thought , then we realised that interview bit is like a book
If I open a library in a city , and there every type of book is available , read whatever you want to read
There are already this type of libraries , setup by governments
But it doesn't mean that whole city will become wise
People don't read books , but if I take 1000 people
And put them in an university , where you have to complete it
Assuming that university is good , there it doesn't happen that 900 people 1000 will dropout
900 out of 1000 graduates
There learning level becomes higher, if the university is good
Hence we said if we have to increase that 1000 no.
then we need to relook at the approach , internal goal was to create online Stanford , whatever it takes we will do it
that will increase the no.
Reality is , our classes are live from best engineers , if I am bringing Google Facebook engineers
To take those classes , then we need to pay them , people don't do it for free
If I give personal mentor to every student
They are also coming from Google Facebook type companies
Which means they are very well paid , then we need to pay them
If we have a team that brings companies then I need to pay them also
Recruiter who will hire I need to pay him/her
Need to pay the team
Some in audience will start there own business
you design  a business , such that you doesn't loose money at unit economics
If I will loose money at every student , then I have to close my company
Till what point you will put money in company
So to maintain that there is certain prize point
But I will tell one more thought , think about it
People go to colleges , fees are very high
in private colleges , typically 10 lakh , 20 lakhs
Even in government colleges , fees is 5 lakhs -10 lakhs
Compare to that , the kind of result that we produce
In comparison to that the no. is not very high
But our mental conditioning is like that  colleges are different
Online courses are different
Till now online course are books format , cousera , Udemy , all are books
No one has attempted like college , one are the 1st
So people are unable to digest , why this is happening
When new thing comes in the market , there will be resistance
I think this will become common that people will skip college and take  course from particular site
At present minority is excepting this , so there is little worry
When the number will increase it will became common
I will add one more data point , for saying I can say anything
We did a audit from KPMG
They have verified that already there are about 2100 students
Who work at top tech companies , graduated from scaler , that no is already bigger then 1000, this I had in interview bit , it is double
We can already see the impact
So we are trying to make it more better
If we are really creating impact , then the prize for what people are getting is nothing
If we are taking money , I need to pay to someone that 's why I need to take it
I can't justify if the prize is correct or not, you can only tell it
I have one interesting thing , there is a very interesting comment
Recently in november I created a video , named it Sabki placement lagegi
My intend was , I was starting a channel , I teach DSA in free
Because I took the vision I have to do it in next 6 months
I wrote sabki placement lagegi , at present I have 3.5 lakh audience
Can I will be able to get them placed
1 student commented , bhaiya I assume that everyone will be placed
Think you have only 1.5 lakh viewer , will you be able to get them placed
I assume you have created the best DSA course
That interviewer ask the same thing that you teach
But think once , You created 1.5 lakhs deserving candidates , are there 1.5 lakh job opportunities in India
Or in this particular space , I thought of it
It is logical , I can create the best best content
But getting everyone placed , is it feasible or not
What are your thoughts on this ?
Lets talk in no.s
At present in India 2.5 lakhs students are placed after graduation , again every branches
Out of which 2.2 lakh jobs are of IT
Majority jobs are service based 1.8 lakhs are IT /services jobs
Rest are product based , at present the fresher level hiring it not that much
40-45000 on product companies
But , when you take one more step back
And talk to hiring managers , they will tell that hiring is high but there are not enough people
late in demand , then how will I quantify that 1.5 lakhs will be placed or not
Then we saw one more view point that , what is the no of jobs in US
If you look at the job sites slice.com, indeed.com , if you see the jobs in software jobs , then you will see 1.6 million -2 million
Which is 16 lakhs to 20 lakhs ,open jobs
And now world is becoming flat , those companies are also ok to hire someone from India
Who can work remotely in their time zone , there is no need to work from the office
This is no-1
2nd trend , tech world , this is  a zero sum game , what is zero sum game ?
Assume we are playing cricket , if you win I will lose , our some is zero
if you have +1 , then I will have -1
If One wins then one have to lose , these are zero sum games
In tech , you brought a new idea and started something that will create more jobs
I started scaler , 1000 new jobs will be created from scaler
No one has lost because of this , because it is solving new problems
If you have good people then it can create more jobs
< as you solve more problems
Trend wise It is getting into every sector
The more and more that happens , more jobs will be created
Github has published one report , till 2025 there will be 50 million jobs  world wide
At present there are 25 million software engineers are there
That means there will be 25 million new jobs till 2025, it is 2.5 crore
so 3 lakhs is nothing , it is possible
I will tell you one more data point , again this is my observation
You also tell whether you have observed or not
I now know of 5 persons from scaler , their experience is about 6 years
And there compensation is more than 1 crore
The reason is , the people of very good engineers , it is actually not increasing
Now every company has to hire good engineers , all are getting funding
Good engineers are very less , in economics there is a principle of supply and demand
Demand is increasing but supply is not increasing , so then you bid more
So that 's why salary starts increasing
That also show that there is latent demand , which is not being filled , there are not quality engineers
I have also started researching 6 months ago
Can I get  crore rupees from this job , yes , if your experience is greater than 5 years
And you are a deserving engineer , and you are doing work properly , and have grown
Not that you have increased your CTC by switching companies , you have the skills
Then 1 crore is very easy to achieve
When we entered in this domain , 1-1.5 lakh is normal , but perhaps we can't reach crore
After exploring for 6 months I found this is achievable
If you work properly , and learn things regularly , stay consistent , then after 5 years , you can get it very easily
Now we talked about prediction , that according to github we will have that much jobs
If I talk about now , in big MNCs , if I do percent wise slotting of DSA and dev , then 80% dsa
and dev and rest subjects have 20%
Big MNCs have focus on problem solving skills
If it is good , then I will take , it doesn't matter if he/she know android /web /machine learning , I will teach him
I have the time , people to teach , and the resources , I can do it
I case of startups it is opposite , your dev should be good , DSA should be good
I want you to have skills , so that I don't need to teach you
You can start working from starting
I think after 2-3 years DSA positioning will be reduced
Now DSA is lying at 8o% , and rest at 20%
in future , it will be opposite `, DSA would be 20% , and dev 80%
I can see platforms , i will not take the names
Where degree doesn't matter , if you are 12 pass , and you have the skills then you can apply
There you can get 40 lakhs CTC
Condition is that you should have the skills
I can see that are platforms , then why will I waste my four years , I will focus on my skills
And give the interview and get selected , and start the job
I think DSA will come to lower end , what do you think
Startup jobs will increase with time , this is not zero sum game
Jobs will also increase , I definitely agree dev will be the bigger contributor that you are getting the job or not
In MNCs they prefer DSA because there are 3-4 reasons
1. thing can be that the tech stack that they use may not exist in the outside
Google has its own tech stack ,  Goldman sachs has its own Java , In Facebook there was different Php , H php
If I will evaluate some at particular tech stack then it might not be productive in their case
So they evaluate on the basis of core
Why they evaluate on DSA ? there are 3-4 reasons
1. In one day the no of request are so high that the code I will write , will be executed billions times
If I have written it inefficiently , the company has to bare the cost , they need the machines , which are costly
If I write useless code , then company may have to spend in millions
People should understand it
Hence DSA is important , I can relate , when i say to find the optimal solution
Bring O(n^2) to O( n log n) , that's why we are doing it , your no of operations will be increased
If you write in log n then it is optimal , performance will be increased
Less machines will be used , cost will be reduced
This is 1 reason , 2nd as much you practice your coding accuracy will increase
If a developer spends 1 hour to write the code , then he/she spends 10 hours to debug and test
If code accuracy is high , then time to debug and test will be reduced
Which means you become more productive
There is concept of 10X engineers , who are 10 X productive than normal engineers
If you are able to do these things , then you can become 10X productive
So these correlations are seen by companies , in there context it might make sence
It is easy to standardise interviews
Either you solved or not solved
So that's why they focus on DSA , it will not go away , it will remain the part of interview
It may happen , dev ratio increases
Coinbase ,strike has introduced a round in their interviews
Where they give you a code base , and say there is a bug , find it
It doesn't matter whether you found it or not , they want to see how you are finding it
What processes you are following
This may increase , but DSA will be there , as part , % may decrease
There is one more thing , If I am interviewing as SDE 1 , no one is asking design pattern
What is single tone , it can be asked
Flipkart has a round machine coding round , it is designed very well
I gave it , it is very good
You may not solve the question , but you will enjoy the round
You have been given the problem statement , requirements , now think how to use data base , which data structure I will use
How will I design
It is fun to do , in solving DSA , it is ok that you have passed all the test cases
This design game is good , it will be included , it will come there
Low level design , specially OOPs related design will be asked from SDE 1  in near future
In majority cases , it is asked at SDE 2 level ,
And basic networking question will be also included
So don't be depended on DSA , explore things , it will be beneficial for you
Yesterday I had a webinar in Thapar institute
Day before yesterday in Candigar university
I saw a common doubt , there is mobile dev , web dev , IOS dev , machine learning , more things are coming
When I go to do one thing , then I see there is less scope , in web there is more scope
Then I think there is more scope in machine learning
So FOMO is created in my mind , I will be left behind , I will choose the wrong one
When i have so many choices , Then How I will deal it
It may happen that what I choose , it has no scope
Then what to do ,
I will take 2-3 examples , people may know them
With me there were two persons , who lived with me in US in facebook
One of them is a machine learning engineer in insta , it works in news feed team
The other person is the VR engineer , metaverse engineer for Oculus
Both background is that both know coding very well , they knew the coding
Design concepts , which is the base
You have created a very solid base  , upon which you can create any building
Then he learned machine learning , and also learned VR, And learned   quickly
In fact now , everyone knows Tanay Pratab , he is building a metaverse
He doesn't have any background in metaverse , his base is solid , upon which you can create any building
The most important thing to understand is , base should be solid
1st create the solid fundamentals , you should know coding very well , problem solving should be good
LLD concepts should be good , little dev
Then technology will come , you can learn them , you can learn metaverse
Block chain
Web 3, web dev , with time you can learn all these things
But if base is not solid , then whatever you learn will be waste
When I started to do dev in college time
Machine learning was looking hard, I either do android or web
I took courses from Udemy , and started , after 15 days , I was not enjoying it
Then started android , it was looking good
Then I continued ,my advise is if you have 5 things , then try them all
You may not get the entire picture , but you will get the general idea
Then continue
this can be one strategy , you can follow it
Your base should be strong , if base is not strong , then you will be not able to do it
You will only waste time
You should keep it in mind
1 very important question to you , if you are 21 years old now
Then what points you will tell yourself not to do , or things to keep in mind
Which will be beneficial to you , and the audience
3 things , that you will tell
It is interesting question , one two things I have done correct and I am thankful to that
I focused on building basics in college
When I started working then realised some mistakes that I made
Every developer does it, people think that task has been given , written the code , task has been done
Actually , any developer job is not done after writing the code , then how many people are using it
Is there any problem coming , then job ends
The optimization that you did is it working or not
Overall you created the graph , how much time it is taking , it is dipping or not
From that it is decided that your work has been done or not
I was the task solver , later on became a engineer looking on the entire picture
2. In starting soft skills were very bad ,
Plus when you move to US , there is a kind of fear , how will I talk to any one
When any one will talk about soft skills , I used to think that it is Gyaan , why to listen it
Over period of time realised that , it is very important skill , because when you will do something
You will not do it alone , you will do it in a team
You have to take everyone together , you have to take suggestions from everyone
We call it stack holder management , everyone's growth is important
I realised it later
It is important , if I have to go back then I will focus on it right from day one
3. related to startup , the one mistake that I made
After Facebook I directly started startup , Facebook ,Google ,Amazon are different kind of world
Here you write the code , but what is going on in marketing , sales , what type of strategy goes in content , there is no exposure
So I learned it all by doing mistakes , it took time
If i went back , I will 1st join a early  stage company , where I try to understand all these things by working 1 year
How it works , what mistakes they made , what is the right structure to run
Then I would have started
3rd point is mind opening , I didn't think on this by this perspective , it is logical
You go with the mind set that you will work in the company , collect the capital , knowledge
then start the startup
In starting of interview bit you didn't know sales , marketing
But if we had applied this strategy there , then there we have been able to see how things are building from scratch
then we would have started interview bit , then we would have grown more
This is good point , I can think of applying it`
This is logical
Would you like to give some advise to audience, one thing that we should keep in mind
Whether you are doing startup or coding , or anything else
Then we will end this session
I have one advise that , people don't discuss about there dreams with each other
Our 1st class in scaler is dare to dream
Every journeys starting point is that you dreamed
Then you start  to fight
My advise to everybody is that dare to dream , dream about what you can do in life , and then go and achieve it
But start with dream, it is ok to dare to dream
Yes sir if we don't know where to go , then we would be not able to run in that direction
1st decide the path , then start running to it, introspect in intervals that you are going in correct direction or not by some experienced person
You should know the direction , where to go
Thanks sir, it was fun in this session
that's it for this video, we will meet in the next video, Bye Bye!!